Today, we will discuss one of
the most fundamental ideas
in reinforcement learning.
To quote from the textbook,
if one had to identify one idea
as central and novel
to reinforce learning,
it would be temporal
difference learning.
By the end of this video,
you'll be able to define
temporal difference learning,
define the temporal
difference error,
and understand the
TD zero algorithm.
In the prediction problem,
our goal is to learn
a value function that estimates
the returns starting from
a given state. But you
already knew that.
Before we get started,
let's discuss
a small modification to
our Monte Carlo policy
evaluation method.
We can use this formula to
incrementally update
our estimated value.
Notice that this uses
a constant step size like
our bandit learning algorithms.
That means this
algorithm can form
a Monte Carlo estimate without
saving lists of returns.
To compute the return,
we have to take samples
of full trajectories.
This means we don't learn
during the episode,
but we want to be able to learn
incrementally before
the end of the episode.
We must come up with a new
update target to
achieve this goal.
Recall the definition of
the discounted return.
We saw a while back
that this can be
written recursively like so.
The value of a state at time
t is the expected return at time
t. We can replace the return
inside this expectation with
our recursive definition.
We can further split
up this equation
because the linearity
of expectation.
We then get the expectation of
the return on the next step,
which is just the value
of the next state.
Now we have written
the value function
recursively as well.
Let's go back to our incremental
Monte Carlo update rule.
We want to update toward
the return but we don't
want to wait for it.
We can replace the return
at time t with
the reward plus the estimate
of the return in the next state.
We can think of the value
of the next state as a
stand-in for the return until
the end of the episode.
So we don't have to wait
until the end of the episode,
but we still have to
wait to the next step.
We call this the t target.
The terms inside the brackets
resemble an error,
which we call the TD error.
We will often see the TD
error denoted by delta
t. The target of
our update might seem a
little strange at first.
TD updates the value of one state
towards its own estimate of
the value in the next state.
As the estimated value
for the next state
improves, so does our target.
In fact, we've done
something like
this before in
dynamic programming.
In DP, we update it toward
the value of all
possible next states.
The primary difference is in DP,
we use an expectation over
all possible next states.
We needed a model of
the environment to
compute this expectation,
in TD we only need
the next state.
We can get that directly
from the environment
without a model.
Let's talk about how
we get that next state
directly from the environment.
Think of time t plus one as
the current time step and time
t as the previous time step.
So we simply store the state from
the previous time step in
order to make our TD updates.
We see a stream of
experience: state,
action, reward, next
state and so on.
From the state of time t,
we can take an action,
and observe the next state
at time t plus one.
Only then can we update
the value of the previous state.
We can now fully describe
the tabular TD zero algorithms.
TD takes the policy
to evaluate as input,
it also requires
a step size parameter
and an initial estimate
of the value function.
Every episode begins in
some initial state S,
and from there the agent
takes actions according to
its policy until it reaches
the terminal state.
On each step of the episode,
we update the values with
the TD learning rule.
We only need to keep track of
the previous state
to make the update.
This is TD zero.
Many algorithms and reinforce
learning are based on TD.
If you don't follow exactly how
this algorithm
works, don't worry.
In the next few episodes,
we'll walk through
several examples of TD in
action. That's all for today.
In this video, we introduced
temporal difference
learning which
uses bootstrapped
estimates of the return.
We learned about the TD Error,
and we discussed the
TD zero algorithm.